>> Jem: Command mode, so
let's go to insert mode.
Type "Hello, World!", then press Enter.
Type "Hello, class!", okay so,
now that we have something to search,
we're gonna use the search command.
Back in VIM,
let me just type Hello, world.
So hit escape back in command mode.
So if I wanna search /
I can type in Hello.
I hit Enter, I'm now searching documents.
I hit End, still in command mode,
and move to the next
instance.
>> Jem: I know,
this seems trivial for
a two line document, but later,
when we're in much larger documents,
find will save you.
Unless you wanna just scroll, scroll,
scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll, scroll.
Shift+N searches from the bottom
of the document, so Shift+N,
N for search.
>> Jem: I have VIM cheat sheets,
and they are massive.
Because there are a lot of
commands that you use and
you probably don't even know that you use.
But I don't wanna get too bogged down
in all the commands, cuz they are many.
So, so far we've learned search
from bottom search from the top,
we've learned how do undo and redo.
Let's keep going and
learn some more commands.
>> Jem: Okay, yeah, so, I cut and
paste out of linuxmoz.com,
they have cheat sheets.
But trust me when I say it is many,
many pages so
I only want to give you the relevant, yes?
>> Speaker 2: Is there a way to make
the search non case-sensitive?
>> Jem: There is,
I actually don't know
off the top of my head.
I am not a VIM pro, but the good thing is
if you Google non case-sensitive search,
actually I'll just do that now.
>> Speaker 2: I think it is non
maybe you meant case-sensitive,
cuz I dont think it is.
>> Jem: I think it is currently,
it's case-sensitive now.
>> Speaker 2: By default, case-sensitive.
>> Jem: So I'm just gonna do what I'm
doing, VIM case-insensitive, search.
This is how I solve all
my problems at work, too.
How do I do case-insensitive search?
>> Jem: Slash C,
interesting, let's give that a shot.
So I'll go back in Insert mode,
actually go to here.
Just want to go to the end, Insert.
Actually, undo, say hello.
>> Jem: Hello /, what's that, forward c?
>> Jem: Cool.
>> Jem: So that was in command mode,
escape / \c, and then case unsensitive
search.
>> Jem: I know,
it's so gnarly,
cuz this is not what we're used to at all.
And it gets people the first
time they use VIM.
They're just like, this is so ugly.
But, again, if you're a VIM pro and
you have all this stuff
memorized from muscle memory.
You're so much faster than most
other IDEs you could possibly
use.
>> Jem: Great question though, and
never be scared to Google something.
[LAUGH] Trust me, so many people just,
I don't know, they get intimidated.
And think no I need to
memorize everything.
No, I don't memorize most things,
I have a search engine.
So these are valuable cheats that you use.
Again DD deletes a line, useful.
:q will exit VI without saving anything.
:wq is probably the one
you're gonna use most.
>> Jem: So,
>> Jem: Actually, I think that's
the next slide.
So this just,
>> Jem: Yeah, so feel free that, these
slides again are on jemyoung.com/fefs
if you need to come here and reference.
Or you can just Google VIM cheat sheet,
and
it'll tell you a whole bunch of commands.
It'll tell you probably way
more than you want to know.